[Kaptain] Install Kaptain non air-gapped (#4334)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kaptain/2.0.0/install/dkp/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Install Kaptain on DKP 2.x

> title: Install Kaptain on DKP 2.x (non air-gapped)

Reviewer: do we want to call that out that explicitly? I'd vote for calling out the air gapped part rather than the non air gapped part

Reviewer 2: In other places in the docs we refer to this as a networked environment:

https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.2/install/networked/

```suggestion
title: Install Kaptain on DKP 2.x in a networked environment
```

Author: Yep, you are completely right! Thanks, Craig!

- [`kubectl`][kubectl] on your installation machine

> - For customers running on a multi-cluster environment (Enterprise): Ensure you have configured [Kaptain to authenticate with a Management Cluster][dex].

Author: @alembiewski is this a correct way to describe it? Or do you think we need to mention Managed Clusters specifically?

Reviewer 3: Looks good to me!

In case you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, it needs to be installed separately.
Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2]

## Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog Applications via CLI 

If you installed DKP with Kaptain as a Workspace application in the Kommander installation file, you do not need to create a Git Repository for Kaptain. 

If you added Kaptain after installing DKP, you must make it available by creating a Git Repository. Use the CLI to create the GitRepository resource and add a new repository. 

### Create a Git repository for Kaptain

1.  Refer to [air-gapped install instructions][airgapped_install], if you are running in air-gapped environment.

1.  Adapt the URL of your Git repository:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:

>       name: kaptain-catalog-applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      name: kaptain-catalog-applications
      namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
```

      labels: 
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitrepository-type: catalog
    spec:
      interval: 1m0s
      ref: 

>         branch: dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        tag: 2.0.0
```

      timeout: 20s
      url: https://github.com/mesosphere/kaptain-catalog-applications
    EOF
    ```

1.  Ensure the status of the `GitRepository` signals a ready state:

    ```bash

>     kubectl get gitrepository example-repo -n ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}

Reviewer 2: There's something missing/wrong here.  

1) The name of the gitrepository we just created is 'kaptain-catalog-applications' so I think that is what we should be checking here (not example repo).
2) The Gitrepository yaml above doesn't specify  a namespace, and itseems like it should have since we now are looking for it in ${PROJECT_NAMESPACE}.    Also, I don't see anywhere that we've defined PROJECT_NAMESPACE in these docs.   @juliangieseke, perhaps you can provide some assistance here to fix this up?

Author: @lukeogg

Reviewer: maybe a good idea to link out to the kommander docs anyway? theres an example how it should look like too: https://dev-docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.2/workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/dkp-applications/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get gitrepository kaptain-catalog-applications -n ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
```

    ```

    The repository commit displays the ready state:

    ```sh
    NAME         URL                                                        READY   STATUS                                                              AGE

>     example-repo https://github.com/example-org/example-repo                True    Fetched revision: master/6c54bd1722604bd03d25dcac7a31c44ff4e03c6a   11m

Reviewer 2: This needs to be updated with the correct name of the git repository object, not an example

Author: @lukeogg

Author: @lukeogg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kaptain-catalog-applications https://github.com/mesosphere/kaptain-catalog-applications                True    Fetched revision: master/6c54bd1722604bd03d25dcac7a31c44ff4e03c6a   11m
```

Reviewer: linked kommander docs above use `kubectl get apps` to verify 🤔

>     ```

Reviewer: I _think_ kaptain is installed at this point. commands below are more like deploying it. cc @lukeogg

Reviewer: ok yeah... adding, installing, deploying.. we meant the same 🙈

> - Install Kaptain:

Reviewer: still a kudo command, this needs to be removed

In case you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, it needs to be installed separately.
Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2]

## Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog Applications via CLI 

If you installed DKP with Kaptain as a Workspace application in the Kommander installation file, you do not need to create a Git Repository for Kaptain. 

If you added Kaptain after installing DKP, you must make it available by creating a Git Repository. Use the CLI to create the GitRepository resource and add a new repository. 

### Create a Git repository for Kaptain

1.  Refer to [air-gapped install instructions][airgapped_install], if you are running in air-gapped environment.

1.  Adapt the URL of your Git repository:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:
      name: kaptain-catalog-applications
      namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
      labels: 
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitrepository-type: catalog
    spec:
      interval: 1m0s
      ref: 

>         tag: 2.0.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        tag: v2.2.0
```

>         tag: v2.2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        tag: v2.0.0
```

      timeout: 20s
      url: https://github.com/mesosphere/kaptain-catalog-applications
    EOF
    ```

1.  Ensure the status of the `GitRepository` signals a ready state:

    ```bash
    kubectl get gitrepository kaptain-catalog-applications -n ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The repository commit displays the ready state:

    ```sh
    NAME         URL                                                        READY   STATUS                                                              AGE
    kaptain-catalog-applications https://github.com/mesosphere/kaptain-catalog-applications                True    Fetched revision: master/6c54bd1722604bd03d25dcac7a31c44ff4e03c6a   11m
    ```

## Deploy Kaptain on selected Workspaces

> You have installed Kaptain by adding it to the DKP Catalog applications. The next step is to enable and deploy Kaptain on all clusters in a selected Workspace. For this, refer to [Deploy Kaptain] instructions. 

Reviewer 2: Is the [Deploy Kaptain] link supposed to be undefined?

In case you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, it needs to be installed separately.
Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2]

## Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog Applications via CLI 

If you installed DKP with Kaptain as a Workspace application in the Kommander installation file, you do not need to create a Git Repository for Kaptain. 

If you added Kaptain after installing DKP, you must make it available by creating a Git Repository. Use the CLI to create the GitRepository resource and add a new repository. 

### Create a Git repository for Kaptain

1.  Refer to [air-gapped install instructions][airgapped_install], if you are running in air-gapped environment.

1.  Adapt the URL of your Git repository:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:
      name: kaptain-catalog-applications
      namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
      labels: 
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitrepository-type: catalog
    spec:
      interval: 1m0s
      ref: 

>         tag: 2.0.0

Reviewer: this will only work after we created the tag (which is ok). @alembiewski any preferences on tag name?

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering if we should put the DKP release version here (instead of the Kaptain version), as we do for the other `*-catalog-applications` repos: https://github.com/mesosphere/insights-catalog-applications/tags or https://github.com/mesosphere/dkp-catalog-applications/tags

Reviewer: dang commited your change to early. I do not think we should have kaptain in syn cwith DKP, in fact other parts of DKP are eliminating this version link currently.

      timeout: 20s
      url: https://github.com/mesosphere/kaptain-catalog-applications
    EOF
    ```

1.  Ensure the status of the `GitRepository` signals a ready state:

    ```bash
    kubectl get gitrepository kaptain-catalog-applications -n ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The repository commit displays the ready state:

    ```sh
    NAME         URL                                                        READY   STATUS                                                              AGE
    example-repo https://github.com/example-org/example-repo                True    Fetched revision: master/6c54bd1722604bd03d25dcac7a31c44ff4e03c6a   11m
    ```

> ### Add Kaptain 

Reviewer: this section can be removed entirely. will be covered in deploy docs.

### Enable Kaptain with a custom configuration

<!-- Is this an alternative or an additional step to the section above: Create a Git repository for Kaptain? -->

1.  Provide the name of a `ConfigMap` in the `AppDeployment`, which provides custom configuration on top of the default configuration:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: apps.kommander.d2iq.io/v1alpha2
    kind: AppDeployment
    metadata:
      name: kaptain
    spec:
      appRef:
        kind: App
        name: kaptain-2.0.0
      configOverrides:
        name: kaptain-overrides
    EOF
    ```

1.  Create the `ConfigMap` with the name provided in the step above, with the custom configuration:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    data:
      values.yaml: 
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: kaptain-overrides
    EOF
    ```

Kommander waits for the `ConfigMap` to be present before deploying the `AppDeployment` to the attached clusters.

### Add Kaptain 

Apply the modifications to the yaml file and make Kaptain available in the DKP Catalog apps section:

```bash
kubectl apply -f gitrepository.yaml
```

## Deploy Kaptain on selected Workspaces

> Refer to [Deploy Kaptain] instructions to enable and deploy Kaptain on all clusters in a selected Workspace. 

Author: ```suggestion
You have installed Kaptain by adding it to the DKP Catalog applications. The next step is to enable and deploy Kaptain on all clusters in a selected Workspace. For this, refer to [Deploy Kaptain] instructions. 
```

  ```bash
  kubectl kudo plan status --instance kaptain -n kubeflow
  ```
### Enable Kaptain with a custom configuration

> <!-- Is this an alternative or an additional step to the section above: Create a Git repository for Kaptain? -->

Reviewer: yeah this could use some clarifications why customers would want to do it.

Reviewer: after reviewing #4339 I think this is duplicated and should only be in #4339 as it seems to be part of deployment. at least if I udnerstand things correctly. (cc @lukeogg to verify)

Author: To sum up, we should move lines 154 to 189 (### Enable Kaptain with a custom configuration) to the deployment page, correct? + correct, verify yaml lines to match what is needed for Kaptain.

1.  Provide the name of a `ConfigMap` in the `AppDeployment`, which provides custom configuration on top of the default configuration:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: apps.kommander.d2iq.io/v1alpha2
    kind: AppDeployment
    metadata:
      name: kaptain
    spec:
      appRef:
        kind: App
        name: kaptain-2.0.0

>       configOverrides:

Reviewer: can we clarify its about these lines?

        name: kaptain-overrides
    EOF
    ```

1.  Create the `ConfigMap` with the name provided in the step above, with the custom configuration:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    data:

>       values.yaml: 

Reviewer: this looks incomplete 🤔

    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: kaptain-overrides
    EOF
    ```

Kommander waits for the `ConfigMap` to be present before deploying the `AppDeployment` to the attached clusters.

### Add Kaptain 

Apply the modifications to the yaml file and make Kaptain available in the DKP Catalog apps section:

```bash

> kubectl apply -f gitrepository.yaml

Reviewer 2: ????  This seems out of place here?  Doesn't this go with the ## Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog Applications via CLI section?

Author: @cneth should this go after ### Create a Git repository for Kaptain and before  ### Enable Kaptain with a custom configuration ? Just need a confirmation that I understood this correctly and I will make the changes.

Reviewer: not sure we need this whole section, I _think_  above docs cover everything necessary. not sure what "Add Kaptain" is in this case. @lukeogg ?
